# MUSCLE-Foam

MUSCLE-Foam is a modular neutronics solver for OpenFOAM-13. It allows for coupled simulations of standard OpenFOAM solvers with the addition of neutronics. MUSCLE-Foam reads several fields from the fluid solver (density, face fluxes, viscosity, etc.) and returns a heat source comprised of a prompt neutron heat source and a decay heat source. MUSCLE-Foam differentiates itself from other OpenFOAM-based multiphysics solvers by the fact that it exploits OpenFOAM's modular solver approach (first introduced in OpenFOAM-11, Foundation version) to offer the capability of combining any of the implemented neutronics solvers coupled with any *native* OpenFOAM fluid solver.

## Authors

MUSCLE-Foam is developed by Victor Habiyaremye and Eric Cervi at NRG PALLAS (formerly NRG), Petten, The Netherlands. The development of MUSCLE-Foam is part of the PIONEER research program, and originates from previous multiphysics solver developments at Politecnico Di Milano.

## License

MUSCLE-Foam is published under the [GNU GPL Version 3 license](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

MUSCLE-Foam is distributed under the European Dual Use Codification EU DuC=0D001. This source code may contain information that may be subject to European and/or national export authorization. Any transfer or disclosure of the information contained in this source code which requires an export license will not be made without the authority of an export license demanded by the competent authorities. The exporter is responsible for obtaining the export license. No rights may be derived from the (absence of an) EU DuC.

## Prerequisites

MUSCLE-Foam requires OpenFOAM-13 (Foundation version).

## Usage

Once OpenFOAM-13 is compiled, MUSCLE-Foam can be compiled with

    ./Allwmake

To use MUSCLE-Foam, the `muscleFoamRun` command is used. Similar to the standard `foamRun`, it requires the user to select a thermo-hydraulics solver. In addition, a neutronics solver should be specified. Running MUSCLE-Foam may look like:

    muscleFoamRun -solver <fluid solver> -neutronicsSolver <neutronics solver>

For an overview of the available fluid solvers, the [OpenFOAM user guide](https://doc.cfd.direct/openfoam/user-guide-v13/solvers-modules) may be consulted. The following neutronics solver modules are available in MUSCLE-Foam:

 - `diffusion`
 - `SP3`
 - `SN`

In order to couple the neutronics solver back to the fluid solver, the `neutronicsHeatSource` fvModel should be used.

The [tutorial](./doc/tutorial/tutorial.md) can followed for more detailed instructions on the usage of MUSCLE-Foam.

## Documentation

MUSCLE-Foam's source code is documented using Doxygen. The documentation can be generated by running the following in the '`doc`' folder

```
doxygen Doxyfile
```

This requires Doxygen to be installed.

## Contact & Support

For bug reports or support, feel free to contact [Victor Habiyaremye](mailto:victor.habiyaremye@nrgpallas.com).

## Disclaimer

MUSCLE-Foam is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as-is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the copyright owner or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.
